---
title: 2/n day of AI Challenge
date: 2024-11-15 12:00:00 +500
tags: [Data Analysis, AI]
categories: [365 days of AI]
---
# 365 days of AI

AI in Data Analysis

Data analysis can benefit largely from AI and ML. AI algorithms are capable of improving with iterations, and this way, their accuracy, and precision increase accordingly. AI can help data analysts with handling and processing large datasets. 

AI can identify patterns and insights that human eyes can’t notice without putting in a lot of effort. Moreover, it is faster and more scalable at doing so. For example, Google Analytics has Analytics Intelligence, which uses machine learning to help webmasters get insights on their websites faster. 

You can ask Analytics Intelligence a question in simple English, and it would give you a prompt reply. It also provides webmasters with Smart Lists, Smart Goals, Conversion Probability, and other features that help the webmaster in improving the results of their site. 

The scope of AI in data analytics is rising rapidly. Another example of AI applications in this sector is predicting outcomes from data. Such systems use the analytics data to predict results and the appropriate course of action to achieve those results. Learn more about  <a href="https://www.upgrad.com/blog/types-of-artificial-intelligence-algorithms/" target="_blank">AI applications.</a>

As mentioned earlier, AI systems can handle tons of data and process it much faster than humans. So, they can take customer data and make more accurate predictions of customer behavior, preferences, and other required factors. Helixa.ai is a great example of such an AI application. They use AI to provide insights into customer (or audience) behavior for higher accuracy and better results. Agencies and marketers can use their services to build precise buyer personas and create better-targeted ad campaigns.
